# **Augmenting the Gallery - Notes**

## Assignments

#### Augmented Exercise 2 – Chinese Font Size System

In this exercise, I attempt to introduce a little bit of the history about modern Chinese typography. Even though China might be considered the first to invent woodblock printing and movable type, the modern letterpress technology and metal type founding were not around in China until the late nineteenth century when the Western Christian missionaries entered the country and established missionary presses. During China’s transition from woodblock printing to Western mechanization, the earliest modern China font size system – the “number” system – was introduced by The American Presbyterian Mission Press in Shanghai.

The system consists of seven different font sizes, and all seven are realized in this AR application as 3D modeled metal types. A type specimen is also included along with the metal types in hope of offering additional information about how did they look like when printed on paper in the nineteenth century. Each object is also accompanied by a virtual label above to help to identify the configuration, the English / Chinese name of the font size, and a short paragraph about the history behind this “number” system.

I am overall satisfied with the result that came out. One problem I encountered and yet failed to solve is that as the user is choosing which object to be placed or moved next by tapping on the buttons on the left side of the screen, the app would detect that action as re-deploying the current object to a new position, that is, behind the virtual buttons, on the left. I wonder if there is a way for that detection to avoid the space the buttons occupy on the screen.



#### Collection Exploration

**Nanjing Museum**, is one of the largest museums and one of the first museums established in China. Located in the city of Nanjing, an old capital of ten dynasties in the history of China, Nanjing Museum holds a collection of more than 430,000 pieces of  artifacts and artworks spanning the time from the Neolithic Age to the contemporary. 

While many major museums in the Western world hold a rather “international” collection of objects of the global civilization, Nanjing Museum almost exclusively focuses on collecting domestic artworks and artifacts that were discovered within the nation. Because of that, the collection of Nanjing Museum is organized and classified mostly according to the medium, and dynasties (which is to say in a chronic order ). 

Compared to The Palace Museum in Beijing which has a more comprehensive collection of Chinese arts from all parts of the nation, Nanjing Museum puts a heavier emphasis on studying and displaying artifacts and artworks made, collected, discovered locally. Most objects displayed in its permanent exhibition galleries were original from the city itself or areas around. 

Such locality of museum objects in Nanjing Museum will be the overarching theme of this augmented reality application. One might never know that one of the most appreciated ink paintings from the Sui Dynasty was rescued across the river from his/her apartment; Or an important porcelain kiln factory once stood next to that popular shopping mall. This application aims to reconnect the modern public with the history in a tangible and specific way. With the collection database available, the app is able to map all the objects with confirmed geographic information relating to their initial creation or excavation sites and so on onto the streets of Nanjing. Through the app, one is able to discover all the artifacts and artworks that once existed near his/her neighborhood before they went into the museum collection. In a way, the app liberates / releases the collection from the museum, and give it back to the city as a larger cultural space. The way AR kicks in draws inspiration from Pokémon Go. 

## Reading Responses
### week 02

#### On Licklider’s *Man-Computer Symbiosis*

In this essay Licklider presents the current (well, his “current” by the time this essay was written) absence of and an ideal vision of a much more smooth, intuitive, “organic” interaction between human and computer. He calls it “symbiosis” much like his example of fig tree and one kind of wasp. Naturally we may come up with the doubt that computer, does not really need human. Certainly, computers require power  in order to operate properly, but the very reason computers are made and then plugged into the power grid is to serve us in one way or another. Computers do not rely on human, at least not in the same way as we rely on computers. But, if we steer away from this “consciousness” philosophical dilemma, Licklider does offer a good discourse on how human and machine can cooperate more efficiently, that is to combine the respective strengths of the two and supplement each other, for a collective goal. (Again, not that a machine needs a goal.) 

This ideal situation differs from “mechanically extended man” or “semi-automatic systems” where there are few interactions. This situation requires constant interactions between man and computer that will form loops of information exchange which not only tackle mechanical and repetitive work but also will foster the process of decision-making or interllectual thinking. I am particularly font of Licklider’s idea that such interaction resembles working with “a colleague whose competence supplements your own”. In order to achieve such level of cooperation, man and computer should at least communicate seamlessly. 

Again, we may gain better understanding of it by making another analogy. Think of man and computer as two people who speak different languages, and they would work more closely and efficiently through a third language that both of them speak, or body language that to some extent convey meanings universally. And that is the signifance of inventions like the graphical user interface, touch screen, Scratch language, or even any basic high-level programming language to some extent. They, as the “third language”, serve as a midpoint between the world of human and the world of machine where the two could meet with fewer obstacles. 

Over the years, this midpoint has shifted more and more towards the world of us, of course, for all these works are set to be done in our favor. If we look at this matter of man-machine communication in a “human-centralism”, such shift enables more people that aren’t so familiar with technology to enhance their living experience more seamlessly with the help of computers and other electronic devices that are being invented daily nowadays without much learning cost.

#### On Sutherland’s *The Ultimate Display*

This is without doubt a piece of writing with limits of its time. Most of the technical difficulties found in the making of computer displays and inventions of new means of interacting with computers through display, that are mentioned in Sutherland’s essay have been conquered over the years. Many concepts imagined in this essay have long infiltrated the mundane life, some other have been proven obsolete and fallen into disuse. 

Touchscreen, as a huge part of Sutherland’s research, even surpasses “the typewriter keyboard” which Sutherland himself considered what would be the main tool to communicate with computers, as the primary input device for almost all electronics. Touchscreen becomes the absolute dominating tool to interact with a smartphone; it is implemented on new generations of laptops; it is implemented on treadmills; it even makes its appearance on the center console of the car to replace physical control buttons and knobs. 

One advantage of touch screen is that it introduces a more natural way of interacting with the machine. The desire of touching on something after seeing it might one of our instincts that we are born with. And that leads to the idea of overlapped mappings (my made-up word). We are able to immerse more into the experience when more actions from us are performed under consciousness. In the instance of touch screen, that is to say, I know I will be touching and manipulating the thing that I am currently looking at. 

Communicating with a computer using a keyboard, especially a few decades ago, requires the person to trigger a series of keys on the keyboard, that is in front of the person, on the desk presumably,  in order to input a series of command lines, that is not in the form of natural language most likely, which will be received by the computer and translated into visual signals on a seperate display further away from the person. A huge amount of ciphering and deciphering, and language learning are involved in such process which will itimidate many people with less knowledge of computer and pull down the fluency of the workflow drastically in many situations. 

Touch screen allows the input and output to happen on the very same spot and nearly the same time. As the output display changes its content, for example, after a command was given through a touch, the potential input commands projected onto the display also change accordingly, allowing for a much more flexible and efficient control on the device. And unlike using a keyboard, or a mouse, or a joystick, this process doesn’t need extra matching of the mapping of the input and the one of the output on the user’s end; a event will be triggered exactly at where I touched the screen and a visual (or some other forms of) response will take place potentially in that very spot. 

#### On Krevelen’s *A Survey of Augmented Reality*

Krevelen believes that Augmented Reality can “enhance our perception” and help people to see, hear, feel our enviornments more than other can. However, it seems that AR currently hasn’t quite realised such attractive promise. Admittedly, AR does find its place in certain fields like industrial assembly lines and sports broadcasting as mentioned in the essay, but it is yet far from being a handy tool that will meet the demands of ordinary people. 

Virtual Reality has made an increasing appearance in the gaming and cinema industries over the years. People have figured out where to position the VR technology in our cultural world. In other words, VR has found its meaning in certain fields and a healthy circulation of production and demand is already established. In the case of AR, however, people are still struggling in many situations to realize the potential of it. “What is the question” for AR? What’s left undone in our everyday life? 

To advance in this question, allow me to make the challenge more specific. As there should be an inevitable integration of a real environment and virtual objects (or say information in general), the accessibility of AR is extremely crucial in making it actually handy for the application scenario most likely involves moving around a physical space. I try to use the word “accessibility” instead of “portability” for the reason follows: A smartphone is made extremely portable but we don’t want to pick up it up every time we wants something from it and pause what we are doing at the time. Many commands are be done with our hands off, or even when holding the phone, it doesn’t interrupt with the work at hand. In other words, using AR should ideally introduce as little cost (in every aspect) as possible. It shouldn’t cost a fortune to use; It shouldn’t introduce many extra physical devices; It shouldn’t require a ton of action for us to use; It shouldn’t cost us much extra time. 

Integrating AR into smartphones has solved most of the mentioned above, but a critical flaw can be found in many (if not all) of the AR applications: they could be introducing an extra step of action and disrupting, instead of enhancing, our real time experience. To give a specific example, imaging an AR application for museums. As one holds up his/her phone and points the back camera to the artwork in front, all sorts of relevant information, whether in text or in visual, pop up on the phone screen. Maybe, the information is even carefully mapped onto the artwork’s surface, or its wall label. The experience sounds intriguing until one realizes that this largely affects the viewing experience, the experience of standing directly in front of an artwork that exists in the exact place and time. And this as well is why many museum-going enthusiasts belittle those who do nothing but to take photos of every artworks they walk by in a museum. When a physical artwork is transformed into a two-dimensional image on the screen, much of its charm could be lost and never rescued. We then don’t “see more than others see”, rather our vision is potentially shrunk down into a small piece screen. The act of holding up the phone in front of the artwork, disrupt our normal visual experience in the museum. 

And part of the reason why audio guide is introduced into museums is that wearing headphones doesn’t conflict with our visual experience and auditory information can flow into our ears while we are seeing the artworks directly with our eyes. That’s why I think Siri is by far the most successful AR application, if we define AR generously. Or, audio guide IS a kind of augmented reality. It seems that when people talk about AR, too much attention is put into the visual while the audio and other senses are easily overlooked. 

Nevertheless, the problems found in the attempts of augmenting the visual reality still remain unsolved. How can we archive the level of success in the audio version of AR for instance? An effective antidote is hard to offer at this point. But back to the museum scenario, how can we fit our AR application into moments and bits when people actually will take out their phones so that it can run more transparently?

### week 03

#### On Murray’s *Introduction: A Cultural Approach to Interaction Design*

“This wealth of possibilities raises our expectations, but the functions are so mysteriously offered or so compromised … we can find ourselves spending hours in frustrating trial and error in order to accomplish simple tasks.” The massive blowout in technological development brings confusions and frustrations to our life on a daily base for new possibilities rarely translate into enhancement of utility in an efficient way. We are a new-born everyday trying to figure out how our fingers and limbs work. Such inability in converting concept into practice is especially profound in the new “digital medium” (as the word preferred by Murray) for a number of reasons.

One, as Murray pointed out, digital medium is yet so new to the eyes of ours. While established subjects and fields have “wheels” of all kinds invented ready to use, we need to invent the “wheels” from the start in new digital mediums. Take Cascading Style Sheet as an example, many features and functions that designers have taken for granted in the traditional typography industry are yet missing in CSS. “new” (to CSS) function modules are being introduced and reworked into CSS standards as Working Draft, Candidate Recommendation and Recommendation frequently. “Punctuation Width Adjustment”, a vital part of East-Asian typography, is yet to find its place in the CSS standard, for instance. It is this lack of pre-fab “building blocks of design” that makes the development of digital mediums difficult to advance at its initial stage.

Two, we are bringing too many “legacy conventions” from the old industry into this new area. Those conventions might be proven effective in the old industry, but adapting those into the new system without much further thinking and improvement would limit the new possibilities only found in digital mediums. Emergence of e-books should lead us to experiment new story-telling narratives and new means of displaying texts rather than to fully embrace the traditional linear full-in-text way of composing a book.

### week 04

#### On DuGay’s *Doing Cultural Studies: The Story of the Sony Walkman*

This essay by DuGay can be roughly divided into two parts. The first part discusses the meaning of “culture”, how an object is given certain meaning and how the object is positioned in a myriad of  networks of meanings through the study of Sony Walkman. The second part goes more specifically to analysis of Sony Walkman’s advertising and how certain identification and fantasy are constructed and then linked to the Sony Walkman as an object.

1) What is “culture”? As a word that can be tucked into our daily discourse seamlessly, “culture” is surprisingly hard to define. Wikipedia describes culture as “an umbrella term” which indicates that the word really encompasses a variety of meanings that is almost impossible to cover fully. DuGay in the essay has listed a number of key elements that constitutes culture: “shared, taken-for-granted knowledge”, “the process of human development”, “the way of life of particular groups, peoples, nations or periods” / “whole way of life” and “the production and circulation of meaning”.

2) Language, as the essay (and many other people) would say, is a system of signs to represent things and exchange meanings in a consensual way. English and Chinese, for instance, are two different language systems that represent things and concepts in our world differently. Two symbols from the two systems can refer to the same object. The Chinese word 自行车 (zìxíngchē) and the English word *bicycle* both refer to that two-wheel, pedal-driven vehicle that we spot on streets everyday. An interesting discovery can be noticed if we analyze the words quite literally. The specific words and characters we use to compose a name for an object to some extent speak about how the users of one language system understand the object. *Bicycle* may be interpreted as “two circles”, which gives the object its identity by illustrating the fundamental physical composition, or the shape, of the vehicle. 自行车, on the other hand, may be interpreted as “self-running vehicle”, which might reflect people’s impression on such an object when it was first introduced into the country. Another discovery is relevant to the idea of translation. In many cases, learning a second (or third and so on) language relies on first establishing a connection between the foreign language and the language that one already know. So learning the word (symbol) 自行车 might require an English-speaking person to first acknowledge its equivalence to the word (symbol) *bicycle* before connecting the word straight to the very object. Such process is even more inevitable when describing something abstract and that possesses no physical entity. And it is similar to the process of understanding an object like DuGay says, “[we] map new things in terms of, or by extension or analogy from, things we already know.” In that, “things we already know” and the language we already know serve as a metaphor.

3) Some meanings that we use almost subconsciously and think no further explanation is needed are marked as “literal”. These meanings and ideas almost become the basic building blocks of constructing new meanings for newly-introduced objects, artefacts and ideas. In that, one object might have been embedded in multiple layers of intertwining meanings. As we think our culture as in a “fluid” form, meanings change. Certain “literal” meanings are less used and thus less known. Certain new meanings begin to be widely accepted in a culture. Those basic meaning-building blocks can change through time. People used to use an airplane “iron bird” to better understand this new and almost alien invention, now it has become the most ordinary concept that we in turn can use to describe new things. Say a “drone” is a small plane, for instance.

4) In the middle of the essay DuGay talks about the concept of “soundscape” where he discusses how Sony Walkman can help one escape from the soundscape of the actual world. The topic of escaping from reality through electronic devices has been intensively talked about in recently years with the emergence of smartphones (social media) and more recently, AirPods (let’s consider it as an evolved version of Walkman). The invention of “active noise-cancelling” headphones and earphones has defined the soundscape of many parts of our modern life as “noise”, as the auditory reality that we want to discard. The notion of noise, is rather hard to accurately defined so objectively as even the most beautifully composed and orchestrated music could be considered as noise in the ears of an insomnia patient. When a person wears a pair of noise-cancelling headphones onto the street, he/she might consider “the bustle and hassle” in the city as noise. However, all of a sudden, the situation flipped with the arrival of a global pandemic. People are forced to stay at home, and cities at one point became dead quiet besides of haunting sirens of ambulance. The New York Public Library at such time released an album “Missing Sounds of New York” which consists eight tracks of field-recorded sound of the busy New York before the pandemic. Ironically, that frustrating soundscape of city life we always wanted to escape from becomes the sanctuary away from the depressing indoor life.

### week 05

### week 06

#### On Bautista’s *Museums in the Digital Age*

I thought a lot about John Berger’s book *Here Is Where We Meet* when reading Bautista’s insights on the debate over *place* and *space*. *Space* speaks more about the physicality while *place* speaks more about the event happens within. And Berger, introduces to us a mixture of memories, experiences and relationships with people through a narrative that goes across different places, and objects—Lisboa, Genève, melons, rock paintings near Le Pont d’Arc … Where we meet, a rendezvous, is for sure a location, a locality. But what makes that specific space special is the date, the act of meeting.

To lead the debate into the realm of museums, a museum is essentially a rendezvous to meet with artisans, designers, artists, and maybe people with other identities who are behind those objects exhibited. Past memories, lived experiences are preserved in museum objects, which work as specimen containers. One question, brought with the coming of digital age, is that, if we value the social aspect of a location so much more than the physical aspect, if museum experience is so “[detached] … from the physical museum space”, can museums exist without the physical buildings and collections altogether? Does Wikipedia or Internet Archive count as sort of a museum? But again, we are then going back to the long existing question of, how important is the *aura*?

####  On Desvallées and Mairesse’s *Key Concepts of Museology*

A coherent and meaningful whole of objects, a collection, is the reason why a museum exists. In this sense, museum is almost the appendage to the collection that should adapt to the changing and our increasing knowledge of the collection. However, as the essay implies, there are other institutions that do not necessarily own collections or have collections that are not at a major position of their missions. These institutions share the same name of “museums” as those put the collections at the first place, And such institutions, it seems, have grown over the years. This relationship between museum and collection to some extent resembles that between exhibition and curator.

At its origin, curator is the custodian of a collection who is also responsible for displaying the collection to public. The curator puts together an exhibition in which museum objects ideally shine by themselves, and then stands back. In recent years, there is a trend for more curators to step forward onto the main stage and more actively engaging with the meaning-making, the interpreting, and the contextualizing. A curatorial proposal contributes more to the forming of an exhibition than simply the collection itself. The exhibition is like an essay written by the curator with a bibliography of a series of museum objects. A profound difference between exhibitions realized in such manner and exhibitions totally built around a collection is that, the objects displayed sometimes can be seen totally irrelevant and incoherent at first glance. An ancient skull is put beside an eighteenth century painting; or a bust of Buddha is placed behind a wrecked car. The meaningfulness thus comes from the curator’s careful interpretation and narration.

#### On Goodman’s *The End of the Museum?*

“Why can’t we run a museum as we run a library?” When Goodman illustrates to us how disastrous a library can be if it is run like a museum, one begin to wonder the legitimacy of the operation mode in a museum.

The viewers, unlike being in a library, will not have the freedom to handle the works, or put them in different lights, or bring them home, and etc. Numerous security measures are deployed to ensure a distance between the viewers and the artworks. Truly, part of a museum’s job is to preserve and safeguard its collections from vandalism. But in doing that brings the contradiction to the museum’s own main mission, very well stated by Goodman, that is “for the prevention and cure of blindness in order to make works work”. Simply put, to educate people the ability to see. In some school of thought, the forming of distance transforms things into museum objects that bear significance. Because of the distance, we see works better. But that *distance* said above, to me, is more conceptual than physical. Once one walks into the door of a museum, he/she is in fact temporarily pull out from the real world and sent to the wonderland of a museum world. Everything is seen differently from as seen outside the museum. With this notion of *distance* already flooded in the air, the physical distance indeed will impede people from communicating with artworks. In that, museums also have the duty of finding other means of bringing the audience back in front of the artworks under such not-so-optimized condition.

And to add a little final note on Goodman’s statement that “a museum’s success might be judged by the cultural health of its visitors and its community”: In the other way around, the survival of a museum might as well depend on the cultural health of its visitors and its community.

### week 07

### week 09

#### On Battro’s *From Malraux’s Imaginary Museum to the Virtual Museum*

a “change of function” —> out of original context / appreciated differently —> the title of an artwork —> subject matter —> subject matter vs artist name —> museum wall label design

photography —> reproduction —> “equalize” the style across different objects —> flattened —> “lost specificity to common style” —> scale? —> one attribute / spatial relationship with the space nearby —> reproduction as a hint to the original in which we are allowed to freely imagine ???

Practical restrictions in the museum space —> the ability to manipulate in the digital space —> art reproductions in museum shops —> potential, also echoed in *The End of Museum?* 

What is *Le musée imaginaire*? —> refer to the Apollo essay —> “bespoke museum” / “portable museum”

Art Forgery —> Reproduction / Editioning of digital artwork 

Difference between real / virtual visits —> 1. online exhibition -> a glorified slideshow? —> 2. guided tours -> screen space / game space —> 3. the size of the screen